---
title: Morphology and Finite State Automata
date: 2023-10-09T01:04:19-04:00
---

> [!question]- What is morphology
> Morphology is the study of words and how they are formed.
> Words are the basic building blocks in a syntactic sense
> But most words can be broken down even further into components such as *root, prefix, suffix* etc...
> These component that can't be broken even further are know as *morphemes*

> [!question]- Give the two types of word classes
> - Open Class
> - Function Class

> [!question]- What are the types in open class
> - Nouns
> - Verbs
> - Adjectives
> - Adverbs

> [!question]- What are the types in function class
> - Prepositions
> - Conjunctions
> - Determiners

> [!question]- What are the problem with counting words
> - Compound words
> - Some languages don't have word boundaries
> - Clitics

> [!question]- What are proclitics and give an example
> Clitics that attach to the front of a host
> Example: *'tis* -> *it is*

> [!question]- What is enclitics and give an example
> Clitics that attach to the back of a host
> Example: *she's* -> *she is*

> [!question]- Give an example where both type of clitic appear in the same word
> *'tis'nt* -> *it is not*

> [!question]- What are inflections
> Different word-forms of the same lexeme

> [!question]- What are derivations
> New words are formed from existing words

> [!question]- Inflection vs Derivations
> - Inflections don't change the semantics. They usually just change the grammatical category.
> - Derivation change the meaning of the word
> - Example:
> 	- *cat* -> *cats*. There is no meaning change. Both refer to cat
> 	- *happy* -> *unhappy*. These are two contrasting ideas. The meaning has changed

> [!question]- Give four inflectional rules for English
> - Tense inflection(verb)
> 	- walk -> walks -> walked -> walking
> - Number inflection(noun)
> 	- dog -> dogs
> - Possessive inflection(noun)
> 	- library -> library's
> - Pronoun inflection
> 	- him -> her -> them -> us -> me

> [!question]- Give 5 morphological rules for English
> - Adj + -ness
> - V + -er
> - N + -ation
> - Adjectization
> 	- N + -al
> 	- V + -able
> - Negation
> 	- un + adj/verb

> [!question]- What are stems and affixes
> Stems are the root words
> Affixes are additions to the root form to form a new word

> [!question]- What are the types of affixes
> - Prefix (Before the stem)
> - Suffix (After the stem)
> - Infix (Inside the stem)
> - Circumfixes (surround the stem)

> [!question]- Give an English example for each type of affixes
> Prefix: Unhappy
> Suffix: Happiness
> Infix: No true infixes in the formal language. But colloquially they are usually used in expletives like "beni-fucking-hana"
> Circumfix: enlighten

> [!question]- What are morphemes
> Smallest meaningful part of a word

> [!question]- What are the two type of morphemes
> - Free Morphemes
> - Bound Morphemes

> [!question]- Give examples for some irregular morphemes
> - Irregular plural morphemes
> 	- Regular plural: dog -> dogs
> 	- Irregular plural: child -> children
> - Irregular past tense
> 	- Regular past: walk -> walked
> 	- Irregular past: leap -> leapt

> [!question]- What are allomorphs?
> Have the same underlying morpheme but different realization

> [!question]- Give an example for allomorph?
> *Plural allomorph*
> 	- bus-es
> 	- cat-s
> Both of these belong to the *Plural morpheme*. But they are realized using different affixes

> [!question]- Is morpheme concrete?
> No. Morphemes are abstract categories

> [!question]- Formally define a *Language*
> Let $\Sigma$ be the set of symbols. A string $\omega$ is defined as a sequence of symbols from $\Sigma$. An empty string is one without any symbols and is denoted as $\epsilon$. A *Kleene closure* is an infinite set of all the string that can be generated from $\Sigma$. It is denoted by $\Sigma^*$. A language $\mathcal{L}$ over $\Sigma$ is defined as a *subset* of $\Sigma^*$

> [!question]- What is an automaton?
> Automaton is an abstract model of a computer. It consumes an input string and changes its internal state accordingly. It can either *accept* or *reject* an input string. The set of string accepted by an automaton is defined as the *Language* of that automaton

> [!question] Map the different types of automaton and the languages defined by them

| Automaton | Language                         |
| --------- | -------------------------------- |
| DFA       | Regular                          |
| DPDA      | CFL                              |
| TM        | Recursively enumerable Languages |

> [!question]- Formally define a FSM
> $M = <Q, \Sigma, q_0, F, \delta>$
> Q is the set of all the states(finite)
> $\Sigma$ is the alphabet(set of symbols)
> $q_0 \in Q$ is the initial state
> $F \subseteq Q$ are the final states
> $\delta: Q \times \Sigma \rightarrow Q$ is the transistion function