---
title: Introduction
date: 2023-10-07T00:02:03-04:00
---
# Rest of the questions

[ Chapter 1](20230922044043-Chapter%201.md)

# Phrase Queries

> [!question]- How to search for *phrase queries* using bigrams
> Instead of the index just containing single words, now index using two words
> Then 2 word phrase queries becomes trivial

> [!question]- Suppose you are the search for the phrase *foo bar foobar*. The index only contains bigrams. How to make this work without reconstruction of the index?
> Convert the query using conjunction. *foo bar AND bar foobar*

> [!question]- What is the problem of using conjunction to deal with longer phrase queries with just a bigram index?
> The results have to be manually checked again to verify that the document actually contains the phrase
> This occurs because there is *no sense of position* in a bigram index
> That means that `AND` can be satisfied even if the words are at the polar ends of the document
> Thus this method can produce *false positives*

> [!question]- What are the issue with using bi-word indices?
> - False positives
> - Dictionary size

> [!question]- What is the better solution to bi-word index?
> Positional Index

> [!question]- Give the structure of a positional index
>```go
>type positional_index dict(term, positional_posting_list)
>type positional_posting_list dict(doc_id, positions)
>type positions doc_id[]
>type doc_id int
>```
> > [!example]
> > `{"foo": {0: [1, 4], 1: [5, 6], 3: [5, 4]}`


> [!question]- How to process a phrase query with positional index
> Apply the `merge()` algorithm recursively at the document level

> [!question]- What is a proximity query
> It is similar to a phrase query but the words don't have to be right next to each other. They can be within a distance of `k` which is specified by the user

> [!question]- As a rule of thumb what is the size difference between a positional and a non-positional index
> Roughly 2-4 times

> [!question]- Estimate the size of a positional index in relation to the original text size
> 35-50%

> [!question]- How would you combine bi-word index and positional index?
> The drawback of positional index is when searching for words whose posting lists are very large
> Simple queries like `Michael Jordan` can take a lot of time
> But this is very easy for a bi-word index
> Thus by having both and using them complementarily we reap the benefits of both without any of the disadvantages

> [!question]- Give the algorithm for proximity query using positional index