---
title: Corpus
date: 2023-10-09T01:41:25-04:00
---
> [!question]- What is a corpus?
> A large set of structured text that has been produced in a natural communicative setting

> [!question]- What is representativeness?
> It is a measure of how well learning a corpus can generalize to the entire language

> [!question]- What are the two factors in determining the representativeness of a corpus?
> - Balance -> No. of genres to chose from
> - Chunking -> How the chunk for each genre is chosen

> [!question]- What is a tree bank
> It is a corpus that has been linguistically parsed and annotated with semantic/syntactic structure

> [!question]- What are the two types of treebank corpus
> - Semantic
> - Syntactic

> [!question]- What to semantic treebanks use?
> Formal representation of the semantic structure

> [!question]- Give an example to semantic treebank
> - Robocup
> - Robot Commands

> [!question]- What do syntactic treebanks use?
> The use predicate logic based meaning representation

> [!question]- Give an example to syntactic treebank
> - Penn arabic
> - Columbia arabic

> [!question]- What are the application of treebanks
> - Computational Linguistics to build state-of-the-art NLP system to do POS tagging, parsing, analyzing etc...
> - In Corpus Linguistics to study syntactic phenomena
> - In Theoretical linguistics and psycholinguistics, interaction evidence

> [!question]- What is a PropBank?
> It is a corpus annotated with verbal prepositions and their arguments

> [!question]- What is the use of PropBank?
> It helps in semantic role labelling

> [!question]- What is the distinguishing feature of WordNet?
> Nouns, verbs, adverbs and adjectives are organized into groups known as *SynSets*
> They are connected using *conceptual semantic and lexical relation*


