---
title: Top Down Parsing
date: 2023-10-10T03:00:49-04:00
---

> [!question]- How to add precedence to a grammar?
> - Determine the number of levels of precedence
> - Assign a non terminal for each level
> - Add rules in the order of precedence
> - Force the compiler to choose the higher precedence productions first

> [!question]- What are the levels of precedence for standard algebraic expressions?
> - Parentheses
> - Multiplication and Division
> - Addition and Subtraction

> [!question]- When writing the rules of a grammar where should the highest precedence rules be placed?
> At the last

> [!question]- Explain why the highest precedence rules have to be placed at the last
> Usually the order of evaluation is a *Post order walk* of the parse tree
> That means that we have to have the highest precedence things at the last or as the leaves

> [!question]- Comment on the recognition power of top-down vs bottom-up parsers
> Bottom up parsers can recognize more grammars than top-down parsers

> [!question]- Why can't top down parsers handle left recursion?
> Top down parser build left derivations. If there is left recursion then it will lead to non-termination
> As we can always expand the left most NT to it recursive counterpart infinite times

> [!question]- Formally define left recursion
> For a grammar $G$ if there exists an $A \in N$ such that $A \Rightarrow^+ A\alpha, \alpha \in (N \cup T)^+$

> [!question]- How do you remove direct left recursion?
> $A \rightarrow A \alpha | \beta$
> $\alpha, \beta \in (N \cup T)^+$ and $\alpha, \beta$ doesn't start with $A$
> $A \rightarrow \beta A'$
> $A' \rightarrow \alpha A' | \varepsilon$

> [!question]- Suppose you have a grammar production of the form $E \rightarrow E + T$. Why can't we just write it as $E \rightarrow T + E$ to eliminate right recursion?
> It will remove right recursion. But it will also *change the associativity* of the grammar
