---
title: Instructions
date: 2023-11-20T06:41:23-05:00
---

Complex, UDF, Pig Storage, 

# PPT Structure
- Topic
- Why that dataset
- Why this specific features set
- What sort of analysis
	- Eg: Customer Retention, Environment depletion
- Each student 2/3 slides
- Minimum 10 queries
- Show at least 3 queries
- The first three things are common for the group
- The analysis part should be unique

# Mongo
Arrays, aggregates, cursors, MapReduce, Functions, Innovative Queries

# Online Course
- 2 for starting + 8 for completion


# Official Rubrics
- Map reduce Programming – **20 Marks (Completed)**
- Hive and Pig **– 50 marks** 
	- **Hive** (**Dataset selection (2)** + **Basic Queries for dataset- 8 Marks.**
		- Concepts of Hive – Partitions, Buckets, Complex datatypes, Serde, UDF, innovative queries – least 2 concepts **– (10 Marks – 5 marks each)**
	- **Pig** (**Basic Queries for dataset- 10 Marks)**
		- Concepts of Pig – Complex datatypes, UDF, pig storage, piggy bank, new functions, pig scripts, and innovative queries – )**10 marks** )
	- Each Student is expected to run at least 10 queries and show their execution.
	- A PPT with the following concepts needs to be submitted by the group. **(10 Marks)**
	- Topic
	- Dataset Selection and significance of the dataset
	- Features of the dataset
	- What type of analysis is to be carried out on the dataset?
	
	- Types of questions that will be answered using queries.
	
	- Each student must have a minimum of 2/3 slides showing their queries and execution.
- Mongo ( **30 Marks)**
	- Basic queries **(10 marks)**
	- Concepts of Arrays, Aggregates, cursors, MapReduce, functions, , innovative queries **( 20 Marks)** 
	- What type of analysis is to be carried out on the dataset?
	- Types of questions that will be answered using queries.
	- Each student must have a minimum of 2/3 slides showing their queries and execution.
- Online Course – **10 marks** ( 2 Marks – Start of Course + 8 Marks for completion of the course)